Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn
about different built in string operations
Firstly let us discuss about string length to find the
length of string We have the function strlen
and we passed the name of the string as the argument
to the function
So if the name of the string is str we
can write strlen(str); let us
understand this using a sample programme first we declare a
string of size 12 str = hello world Now
we declare an integer variable length and call the function
strlen bypassing the name of the string str so as
we know the name of the string holds the base
address of the string. So the function will start counting number
of characters till it encounters and null character so it
gets 11 and it will be returned and will
be stored in length
Now we are printing length so we will get 11
printed
So that is how we can find string length
Now let us discuss about string copy
If we need to copy a string to another string we
can use the function strcpy
This function has two arguments The string to be copied
and the string where we need to paste it
Here we have str1 and str2 So Str2
will be copied  and pasted to str1
Now let us see a programme here also we have string
str = Hello world
Now we declare another string copy with the same size
Now we call the function by passing copy and str So
the content of str will be copied
to the string named copy So the same characters
h e l l o white space w o r l d will be stored
in copy
Now we print the string copy. So Hello World will be
printed So that was string copy function
Now let us discuss about string concatenation So
to join to strings we can use this function strcat
and we have two arguments to this function which
are the names of the strings to be joined here
Str2 will be attached to str1 and
stored in str1. Let us understand this
using a simple programme we have str1 with size
11 equal to hello and str2 with size six
equal to world
Now we call the function strcat by passing str1
and str2
So the content of str2 will be attached
to str1 And now we print str1 So
we will get Hello world printed as the output. let us
discuss about finding the first of occurrence of a character
in a string
For that we have a function strchr
with two arguments the name of the
string and the character So let us see a sample
programme
We have str equal to hello world and we declare
a character pointer Pos Now we have to find
the first occurrence of the character o in the string. so
we can call the function strchr by passing the name
of the string str and the character O in single quotes
and the function returns the address of the first occurrence
of 'o' and it will be stored in pos
Now if we print *pos or the value at
the pos,  the character will be printed and if the
character is not present in the string, then the function will be
returning null
Now let us discuss about finding the first occurrence
of a sequence of characters in a string. For that we have
the function strstr which have two arguments the name
of the string where we need to search and the string
whose occurrence we need to find. So let us see
a sample programme
Here we have string str equal to hello world Now
let us declare a character pointer pos and suppose
We need to find the occurrence of the string world so
call the function strstr with the name of the
string str and world So it checks the character one
by one to find the characters W O R L D
Together and it is found so it returns the base
address which is 1030 is stored in Pos
Now when we print the string at Pos it will
print the characters from the address 1030 until it finds
and a null corrector So we will get world printed and
if they string we passed is not present then the
function will be returning null.
Let us see how to compare to strings
For that we have the string comparison function
strcmp which have two arguments which are
the names of two strings to be compared
Considers two strings str1 and str2. Str1
equal to abc and str2 is also abc
Then strcmp function is called by passing str1 and str2
It checks each character. here first character of str1
and str2 are the same. Second character is also
the same. Third character is also the same. So the
function strcmp returns zero So if the strings are
the same strcmp function will be returning zero
now see another example here Str1 equal to ABC
and str2 equal to def Then these two strings are
passed to strcmp function It checks Whether all the
characters are same or not
ascii value of a equal to 97 and of d
equal to 100 We have a difference of 3. The difference
must be zero If the characters are the same here
we have -3 which is a negative value So
str1 is less than str2 so strcmp
function will be returning a negative value.
now see another example str1 equal to abd
and Str2 equal to abc When these two
strings are passed to strcmp function it checks whether
all the characters are same until a null character is encountered
First character in both strings are the same So it
checks the second character
It is also the same. So it checks the third
character. ascii the value of d is 100 and of C
is 99 So the difference is 1 here. we have a
positive value So Str1 is greater than str2. So
the function strcmp returns a positive value
Now let us see a sample programme
Here we have str1 equal to ABC and
str2 equal to ABC Then we have
if strcmp(str1,str2) =0 print
equal else print different So strcmp compares
str1 and str2. Each character is the same
in str1 and str2
So the function returns zero
So if condition is satisfied and it will be printing
equal. If it was not equal then we would get
the output different
So that's all and thank you for watching this video